doc: rework the common patterns page (#105)
biscuit-auth/website: docs/src/recipes/common-patterns.md

# Common patterns

As a specification, biscuit does not mandate specific ways to use datalog. As far as authorization logic is concerned,

> there are no built-in facts with specific  behaviour. That being said, some patterns are common and while not part of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there are no built-in facts with specific behaviour. That being said, some patterns are common and while not part of
```

the spec, are codified in libraries and tools. Finally, using specific fact names can help with reducing token size.

## Expiration check

The CLI and the rust library (among others) use the `time()` fact to represent the instant in time where the token is used.
This provides a way to encode expiration dates in tokens:

<bc-datalog-editor readonly="readonly">
   <code>
check if time($time), $time <= 2022-03-30T20:00:00Z;
  </code>
</bc-datalog-editor>

> It only depends the authorizer and tokens use the same fact name (here, `time()`). It would work with other fact names,

Author: ```suggestion
It only depends on the authorizer and tokens using the same fact name (here, `time()`). It would work with other fact names,
```

> It only depends the authorizer and tokens use the same fact name (here, `time()`). It would work with other fact names,

Author: is it clearer like this?

> It only depends the authorizer and tokens use the same fact name (here, `time()`). It would work with other fact names,

Reviewer 2: What about

Expiration date check is performed if both the authorizer __and__ tokens use same fact name (here, `time()`).

> It only depends on the authorizer and tokens using the same fact name (here, `time()`). It would work with other fact names,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expiration checks require the authorizer and tokens to use the same fact name (here, `time()`). It would work with other fact names,
```
For clarity purposes

Then if the request's token gets stolen, it will limit its impact.

Let's use a basic token containing a user id, that would have access to everything
owned by that user, and do a GET HTTP request on "/articles/1":

<bc-datalog-playground showBlocks="true">
  <code class="block">
user(1234);
  </code>
  <code class="authorizer">

> // the authorizer provides the current date, the resource being accessed and the operation being performed

Reviewer: Small detail but here you list date, resource and operation but below it is listed in a different order (date, operation, resource). If possible, I would put "resource("/articles/1") before operation("read") :)

Author: i noticed it as well and thought nobody else would noticed or be bothered by it.

haha

  </code>
    <code class="block">
check if time($date), $date <= 2022-03-30T19:00:10Z;
check if operation("read");
check if resource("/articles/1");
  </code>
  <code class="authorizer">
// the authorizer provides the current date, the resource being accessed and the operation being performed
time(2022-03-30T19:00:00Z);
operation("write");
resource("/articles/1/comments");
// the authorizer provides a series of rights for the given user
right(1234, "/articles/1", "read");
right(1234, "/articles/1", "write");
right(1234, "/articles/2", "read");
right(1234, "/articles/2", "write");
// the request is allowed if the user has sufficient rights for the current operation
allow if user($user), right($user, "/articles/1/comments", "write");
  </code>
</bc-datalog-playground>

This method relies on the authorizer providing the facts to match on the request. It can be extended further by providing
more data, like a list of HTTP headers or a cryptographic hash of the body.

## Default symbols

In order to reduce the size of tokens, the biscuit specification defines a list of strings that can be used in tokens

> without having to be serialized. Common symbols are thus almost free to use and won't increase the size of the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without having to be serialized. Using these common symbols thus costs very little and won't increase the size of the token.
```
Wdyt?
